
To create a Tekton Task, you can use the following YAML definition:

```yaml
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1beta1
kind: Task
metadata:
    name: example-task
spec:
    steps:
        - name: echo
            image: ubuntu
            script: |
                echo "Hello, World!"
```

Apply the task using the following command:

```sh
kubectl apply -f example-task.yaml
```

Yes, that's correct. In Tekton, a Task is the smallest unit of execution. It defines a series of steps that are executed sequentially within a container. Tasks are used to perform specific operations, such as building an application, running tests, or deploying code. Multiple Tasks can be combined into a Pipeline to define a complete workflow.

Here's an example of a simple Tekton Task definition in YAML:

````yaml
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1beta1
kind: Task
metadata:
  name: example-task
spec:
  steps:
    - name: echo
      image: ubuntu
      script: |
        echo "Hello, Tekton!"
````

You can apply this Task using the following command:

```sh
kubectl apply -f example-task.yaml
```

Create a task that prints a motivational quote.

```yaml
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1beta1
kind: Task
metadata:
    name: motivational-quote-task
spec:
    steps:
        - name: quote
            image: curlimages/curl
            script: |
                curl -s https://api.quotable.io/random | jq -r '.content'
```

These tasks can be applied using the same `kubectl apply -f <task-file>.yaml` command. Enjoy experimenting with these fun and creative tasks!


THese are tekton resources - I should be interacting with it using tkn cli. 

So once a task is created, do we need to run it? What are the various ways of running? 

When you create a Tekton task in an OpenShift cluster, **it doesn't immediately run or create any pods** - tasks are just definitions until they're used in a TaskRun or as part of a Pipeline.


## Key Learning Points

Container-based execution: Each step runs in its own container with its own image
Sequential execution: Steps run one after another in the order defined
Images matter: Choose appropriate container images with the tools your step needs
Resource isolation: Each step has its own filesystem and environment, but can share workspaces
Execution flow: When a TaskRun is created, Tekton creates a Pod with an init container for each step
Logs and output: Each step's output is captured separately and can be viewed in the TaskRun logs

This simple example demonstrates the basics, but Tasks can be much more powerful with:

Parameters for customization
Workspaces for sharing files
Results for capturing outputs
Conditions for controlling execution